TODO.md, before:

# TODO

- [x] Table indexes administration
- [x] Trigger activation and deactivation
- [x] Ability to create a new SQL file from the DB explorer
- [x] Scripts folder (shared + separate for each database)
- [x] Favorites list for objects (triggers, tables, etc.)
- [x] Object search
- [x] Prominently display currently selected database in SQL file tab
- [x] Color settings for folders/databases to distinguish production and dev connections
- [x] Icons for database objects in DB explorer for better readability
- [x] Keyboard shortcut to close Query result
- [x] Keyboard shortcuts to Commit / Rollback
- [x] Keyboard shortcut to connect DB
- [x] Ability to execute SQL queries in non-SQL files
- [x] Support parameter values in comments for SQL execution in non-SQL files (e.g. `col=? -- @value='1'`)
- [x] Support parameter values in comments `:name -- @value='John'`
- [x] Better SQL detection in non-SQL files
- [x] Check functionality in Cursor editor (statusbar, icons in editor)
- [x] Different formats for dates, numbers, null values
- [x] Bug: Query ending with a comment throws an error regarding unterminated query
- [x] Fix alignment glitch in DB explorer
- [x] Backup and restore connections in DB explorer
- [x] Add button to the editor settings
- [x] Add setting to enable empty line as sql queries separator
- [x] Add affected rows count to query result
- [x] Add db connection folder to codelens
- [x] Try to show codelens with active db connection above active sql query
- [x] Add rollback when closing query result
- [x] Fix cursor position after query execution
- [x] Switch Commit and rolback buttons positions
- [x] Support DDL script for triggers in DB explorer
- [ ] Add DDL to triggers
- [ ] Add Drop procedure to Procedures
- [ ] Sort DB objects alphabetically in DB explorer
- [ ] Add toggle between triggers subtree and triggers list
- [ ] Refactor big source files
- [ ] Copy results values to clipboard as list / table
- [ ] Export results to CSV
- [ ] Edit records in results (with automatic primary key detection or manual selection)
- [ ] DDL formating - fix extra empty lines
- [ ] Support multiple simultaneous active database connections
- [ ] diff between SQL in the editor and actual DDL in database

Commit message:

feat: Add Drop option for Procedures, Tables, Views, and Generators

TODO.md, after:

# TODO

- [x] Table indexes administration
- [x] Trigger activation and deactivation
- [x] Ability to create a new SQL file from the DB explorer
- [x] Scripts folder (shared + separate for each database)
- [x] Favorites list for objects (triggers, tables, etc.)
- [x] Object search
- [x] Prominently display currently selected database in SQL file tab
- [x] Color settings for folders/databases to distinguish production and dev connections
- [x] Icons for database objects in DB explorer for better readability
- [x] Keyboard shortcut to close Query result
- [x] Keyboard shortcuts to Commit / Rollback
- [x] Keyboard shortcut to connect DB
- [x] Ability to execute SQL queries in non-SQL files
- [x] Support parameter values in comments for SQL execution in non-SQL files (e.g. `col=? -- @value='1'`)
- [x] Support parameter values in comments `:name -- @value='John'`
- [x] Better SQL detection in non-SQL files
- [x] Check functionality in Cursor editor (statusbar, icons in editor)
- [x] Different formats for dates, numbers, null values
- [x] Bug: Query ending with a comment throws an error regarding unterminated query
- [x] Fix alignment glitch in DB explorer
- [x] Backup and restore connections in DB explorer
- [x] Add button to the editor settings
- [x] Add setting to enable empty line as sql queries separator
- [x] Add affected rows count to query result
- [x] Add db connection folder to codelens
- [x] Try to show codelens with active db connection above active sql query
- [x] Add rollback when closing query result
- [x] Fix cursor position after query execution
- [x] Switch Commit and rolback buttons positions
- [x] Support DDL script for triggers in DB explorer
- [x] Add Drop to Procedures, Tables, Views and Generators
- [ ] Sort DB objects alphabetically in DB explorer
- [ ] Fix affected rows count
- [ ] Add toggle between triggers subtree and triggers list
- [ ] Refactor big source files
- [ ] Copy results values to clipboard as list / table
- [ ] Export results to CSV
- [ ] Edit records in results (with automatic primary key detection or manual selection)
- [ ] DDL formating - fix extra empty lines
- [ ] Support multiple simultaneous active database connections
- [ ] diff between SQL in the editor and actual DDL in database
